1.Which command is used to know the current working directory?
	pwd
2.How would you find out its contents? 
	ls -la
3.Identify the commands with inputs to do the following
	a.create a directory d1
	 	mkdir d1
    	b.create a subdirectory d2 in d1
		mkdir -p d1/d2
   	c.change to directory d2
		cd d2
    	d.create an empty file “f1.txt”
		cat f1.txt
   	e.display the contents of “f1.txt”
		cat>f1.txt
   	f.view the contents of d1 from current directory d2
		ls -1
4.Use the ls command with its options. How will  you identify directories from the listing? 
	ls -d*/
5.Use ls to do the following 
	a.List files with single character names.
 		ls.?


   	b.List hidden files also. [ Note : Hidden files are files having name started with a “.” ]
		ls .* -la
   	c.Suppose there are files tb1.1, tb2.1, tb3.1, ….tb10.1. Write command to list all the files 
	[Hint: use wild card characters]
		ls tb*.1
6.Write the command to list all files in descending order of their size.
		ls -S -la
7.Suppose there are files temp1, temp2, temp3. 
Write command to remove the files without listing them explicitly
		rm temp*
8.Which command is used to list top few lines in the file?
		head -5 text.txt
9.Create a directory “testdir”    
		mkdir testdir
10.Use cp command to do the following  
       a.Copy the file tb1.1 (created above) in the same directory.
		cp tb1.1 tbnew.1
       b.Write a command to copy all the files i.e tb1.1,tb2.1,tb3.1,…..tb10.1 in a new directory –“new
		cp tb*.1 ~/new/
       c.Create a subdirectory in new in named“new1”.
		mkdir -p new/new1
       d.Write a command to copy selectively only tb2.1, tb6.1, tb7.1 and tb10.1 in the directory new1.
		cp tb2.1 tb6.1
       e.e.	Write a command to copy the entire directory “new” to a directory “newprogs”. 
	[Note : use the –R option of “cp” command ]
		cp -R /new//newprogs/
11.Find out the difference between 
            a. “mv” & “cp” 
		mv:This command move or rename files or directories
           		Cp:used to copy files or directories from one location or directories
            b.“rm”, “rmdir”
		rm:used to remove a file from the directory
            		rmdir:used to remove a directory.rmdir with -r deletes a non empty directory
            c.“mkdir” and  “mkdir -p”
		mkdir:used to make/create a new directory
           		mkdir -p:the -p with the mkdir is used to create a directory and any parent directories that does not exist.
12.Use a single command rmdir once to remove “testdir” and  all its sub directories and files created above.
	rm -rdf.testdir/
13.Which command is used to get the manual information of a command?
	man
14.If you are not able to change to a directory what could be the likely cause?
	We could not change to a directory if the directory does not exists/not created
15. Explain the differences among the following commands:
              a. cd / 
	      to navigate a directory to root directory from current working directory.
              b.  cd ..
	       to navigate to the parent directory from present working directory.
              c.  cd
	       to change the directory.
              d.  cd../..
	        to change directory to multiple sub directory Footer.


Advanced Optional Questions:-

1.	How could you display the inode number of a file?
	      You can also use the ls command, together with the -i option, to get a file's inode number. 
	      This command lists files and directories within the filesystem.

2.	What is the pipe symbol? What effect does it have? 
		The Pipe is a command in Linux that lets you use two or more commands such that output of
 		one command serves as input to the next. In short, the output of each process directly as 
		input to the next one like a pipeline. The symbol '|' denotes a pipe.
3.	Find out the details of “ps” command ?
		The ps command is used to view currently running processes on the system. 
		It helps us to determine which process is doing what in our system, how much memory it is using, 
		how much CPU space it occupies, user ID, command name.









































































































































